>> [MUSIC]
>> Mike North: So
you guys checked out a project
that I've published.
But I'm actually going to the process of
setting up a brand new Git repository.
A brand new Ember project just to
sort of convince you that I didn't
set you up with some meticulously crafted,
magical thing that you're not gonna
be able to do when you walk away.
So first, Ember CLI is just a command
that you use in your terminal.
And if you do ember -v,
can everyone see this, by the way?
All right, so
ember- v tells us it's working.
We can also look for help.
Which gives you information about all
of the different things Ember CLI does.
The thing we're going to use it for
right now is code generation,
to give us a working application
as a starting point.
And we're also gonna use it for
a development web server,
which has baked into it
an ASP.NET pipeline with Babel
as the transpiler and [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: You have some text
highlights that I can't really see.
>> Mike North: Thankfully,
I don't think we're gonna run into
that when I'm actually doing things.
I don't wanna attempt to make
that better with LiveShare.
[LAUGH] So the way you create
a new project is using ember new,
I'm just gonna call it github-ui.
So, what's happening here is Ember CLI
has this concept of a blueprint and
it's really just a template for
an application, or
a piece of an application,
or even for an add-on.
If you look at the internals of Ember CLI,
it's really just a folder containing
files with sort of placeholders for
certain things, blanks that get filled in.
And in this case,
relating to the name of my application.
We'll see that popping
up in a couple places.
So that's sort of abstracted
out inside Ember CLI.
It's gonna download the set
of dependencies from NPM, and
I'll follow that by going to bower and
doing the same thing.
And then what we'll be left with is,
a completely set up Ember application.
And it also initializes git as well,
just forgot about that.
And I'm actually just to save myself
some characters in the terminal,
I'm gonna move
>> Mike North: And
I'm just gonna call it the letter g.
>> Mike North: All right, and I'm
actually gonna rename my master branch.
>> Mike North: Perfect.
All right, so, m is for master.
If we look at our files here.
Wherever we've got the app folder and
we've got the tests folder.
So I'm going to install
some Ember addons here, so
we're going to add Sass support
because writing CSS is tiresome.
>> Mike North: And so what this is doing
it is sort of Ember install is built on
top of NPM install.
What it does in addition to NPM
install is it lets the Ember
addon make changes to your app
potentially confirming along the way
that each change is appropriate so that
you can have some initial setup or maybe
it needs to introduce an extra dependency,
or it needs to setup some configuration.
But essentially, it gives the addon
the hook where after NPM installs happen,
it will run this and
give you some post install setup
opportunity as the author
of one of these libraries.
So now we have Sass installed, and
if we look at what happened here,
all we did was add something to
package.json and install it.
So this one was relatively simple.
I'm also gonna install Bourbon which
is just a little Sass library.
I don't actually expect that
we're gonna use it, but
it's a better example of an addon that
actually tries to make a modification.
>> Mike North: So again, going to NPM, and
then we're gonna see it suggest a change.
Ooops, sorry, I made a mistake there.
>> Mike North: All right, just to
describe what happened there, by default,
Ember has this file app.css,
it's sort of the root stylesheet.
You would sort of import
everything from there.
I forgot to rename it here.
And, when installing Bourbon, it assumes
that I'd already done that step there,
that I'd already been working
in the context of SCSS.
So I think installing it again,
we will see something different.
Perfect.
All right, so here's an example
where this Library Bourbon has said,
I want to do something to app.scss and
Ember CLI is giving me
the opportunity to accept or
reject the suggested change.
And it's not,
it is making a change to a file but
you have to think of it
as replacing a file.
And so, we can look at what it's
trying to do by hitting d for diff.
All it's doing is it's actually
importing the Bourbon stylesheet itself
into my app.scss so
I can actually use this thing.
And I can hit yes here and
I will accept what this library
says my app.scss should look like.
What I wanna make sure you guys
realize here is, as your app grows,
like if I had styles that already
existed here, this would blow it away.
And so more likely the not,
the use here is to look at this to
manually make that change to my file,
right?
Until sort of you can see that
you've incorporated what it says
you should incorporate and then decline
to actually so you would hit no here.
I'm gonna hit yes because we haven't done
anything, we have nothing to blow away.
And so it's telling us it overwrote
app.scss and we're good to go.
All right, so I'm gonna go back
out to the root of the app here.
Also, if we look at bower.json
>> Mike North: Sorry.
>> Mike North: So, you'll see that we
have ember 1.13.7 and ember-data 1.13.8.
This is because Ember CLI has not
released its 2.0 version quite yet.
You can use the 2.0 versions just fine,
so I'm just going to explicitly
install the beta versions of
the framework at ember-data right now.
And the way you do that
is bower install --save,
ember#beta ember-data#beta.
Beta is the name of a release channel.
So, makes it 1, 1.
And so, essentially this is like
the latest beta release plus any patches
from critical bug fixes
that have been found.
And so, if we look at our bower.json now,
we've got the beta version of Ember, and
then we've got the beta
version of Ember-data.
All right, this is what you guys checked
out, that's the state we're in right now.
So, I'm gonna fire it up, and
I'm gonna use this left side here
>> Mike North: You'll see why I'm split
screening.
So ember s, s is for serve.
If you've used Rails,
it's basically the same thing as rails s.
So it's starting up
the development web server.
I'm sorry it looks so funky here but,
typically it looks more.
So these lines are wrapping.
It's giving you some information
about how long the build,
each step of the build process took.
So we can see that this
ConcatWithMaps step took 2.2 seconds.
Babel took only two-tenths of a second.
And if we go to.
Let me bring another desktop
over here real quick.
>> Mike North: So if we go to Localhost
4200, we can see Welcome to Ember.
So, our app is running now,
it's serving, yes.
>> Speaker 3: There is one in it,
should they be following along
updating their installs with all this?
>> Mike North: The state that I'm in
right now is what you are in if you
checked out the repository
from the setup instructions.
But I wanted you guys to
understand how I got there so
I didn't cheat you out of the sort of
setting up from scratch experience.
At the same time,
I don't want 100 people NPM installing
the same thing at the same time.
[LAUGH]